(DOCSP-24142): Realm Web SDK <> Next.js integration guide (#2108)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/web/nextjs.txt

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

The following guide teaches how to integrate the Realm Web SDK into a
Next.js application. You can use the Realm Web SDK to access
data from MongoDB Atlas in web applications, such as those created using
Next.js with Atlas App Services. Next.js is a React-based web framework that
handles app configuration and structure, and supports client-side,
server-side, and static rendering.

- **Client-side rendering**: query MongoDB directly from the browser
  using the Atlas GraphQL API or MongoDB Data Access.
- **Server-side rendering**: authenticate users with App Services from
  the browser and query using the GraphQL API on the server
- **Static rendering**: fetch data from MondoDB Atlas to generate HTML
  content at build time.

Before You Begin
----------------

Before using this integration guide, you should:

- Be familiar with Next.js. Consider referring to the
  `Next.js documentation <https://nextjs.org/docs/getting-started>`__.
- :ref:`Create an Atlas App Services backend application <create-a-realm-app>`.
- Create a Next.js app. If creating a Next.js application for the first time,

>   consider referring to the `Next.js Tutorial <https://nextjs.org/learn/basics/create-nextjs-app>`__.

Author: good thought. adding a note.

.. include:: includes/web-quickstart-install.txt

For more information, see the :ref:`Realm Web Installation <web-install>` documentation.

Add Authentication
------------------

Before you can query MongoDB from your app, you must initialize the
App Services client and authenticate a user. You can follow the steps
below to connect the Realm Web SDK to client-side Next.js.
In this example, we're going to expose an authenticated ``Realm.App`` instance
throughout the app using :js-sdk:`Realm.App.getApp(APP_ID) <Realm.App.html#getApp>`.
For additional ways to expose Realm authentication throughout your application,
refer to the `Next.js authentication
<https://nextjs.org/docs/authentication#authentication-providers>`__ documentation.

.. procedure::

   .. step:: Add App ID to environmental variables

      Add your App Services **App ID** to the Next.js app's environmental variables
      to expose it throughout the app.
      The App ID must be accessed from both browser and server-side environments.
      To make the App ID accessible from the browser, you must preface its name
      with ``NEXT_PUBLIC_``. Add the App ID as an environmental variable to

>       :file:`.env.local`.

Author: updated the docs

      .. code-block::
         :caption: .env.local

         NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_ID=<YOUR App Services App ID>

      .. seealso::

         - :ref:`Find an App ID <find-your-app-id>`
         - `Next.js Environmental Variable documentation <https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/environment-variables>`__

   .. step:: Create a custom app wrapper

      Create a custom ``App`` page wrapper that creates a ``Realm.App`` instance
      that you can later expose to child components on all pages.
      Create the file :file:`pages/_app.js`, and initialize a ``Realm.App`` instance

>       using your App ID.

Author: see changes

         :language: javascript

   .. step:: Log the user in

      Now you can access the ``app`` instance with ``Realm.App.getApp("<App ID>")``,
      and use it to log a user in.
      Automatically authenticate a user anonymously in :file:`pages/index.js`
      to create a user when a user arrives to the app home page.

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/web/index.snippet.log-in-index-js.js
         :language: javascript

      In a real application, you would want to have
      a more complex authentication flow. For more information, refer to the
      `Next.js authentication documentation <https://nextjs.org/docs/authentication>`__.

      .. seealso::

         :ref:`Quick Start (React) <realm-react-quick-start>`.

Client-Side Rendering
---------------------

This section shows how you can integrate Next.js client-side rendering
with the Realm Web SDK. Following these steps, you can directly query MongoDB
and interact with an Atlas App Services serverless backend through
client-side JavaScript in your Next.js application. You can query MongoDB
using either :ref:`MongoDB Data Access <web-query-mongodb>` or the

> :ref:`Atlas GraphQL API <graphql-api>`.

Reviewer: We have these same links in the tips below each section - maybe take them out here and let the tips do the talkin?

Author: good spot. going to refactor tips and keep links here. 

- i removed the MongoDB Data Access tip
- refactored GQL tip to only ref the Apollo/React docs

MongoDB Data Access
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Once the ``App`` client is initialized and a user is authenticated,
you can use MongoDB Data Access to directly query MongoDB from
client code in your application.

Access the MongoDB Data Access interface from the ``app`` object you exposed with
React Context. Use :js-sdk:`App.User.mongoClient() <Realm-MongoDB.html>`

> to query MongoDB.

Reviewer: As-is this doesn't actually use React Context - you're using the SDK's internal cache to get the app object. My suggestion to switch to a `useApp()` hook is a bit closer and could optionally use a React Context provider + `useContext()` under the hood.

      In order to pre-render your page using ``getStaticProps()``,
      connect your Next.js app to the Realm Web SDK.
      Then, you can use ``getStaticProps()`` to fetch data from MongoDB.
      The following example shows how to query MongoDB while static rendering.

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/web/static-rendering.snippet.static-rendering.js
            :language: javascript

.. _nextjs-mongodb-alternate-ways:

Alternate Ways to Query MongoDB from Next.js
--------------------------------------------

In addition to the Realm Web SDK, you can query MongoDB from Next.js in several ways:

- Integrate MongoDB with your Next.js application, then execute your MongoDB queries
  using the MongoDB Node Driver. For more information, see the blog post
  `How to Integrate MongoDB Into Your Next.js App
  <https://www.mongodb.com/developer/languages/javascript/nextjs-with-mongodb/>`__.
- Use the MongoDB Data API to query MongoDB Atlas from the Next.js server.  For
  more information, see :ref:`Data API Endpoints <data-api>`.

.. note::

    These alternate methods are incompatible with applying
    App Services rules and permissions to requests associated with each user.

>     See :ref:`Rules — Atlas App Services <mongodb-rules>`.

Reviewer: The Data API supports rules, so this note isn't quite accurate

Author: i get what you're saying. i would argue that due to the fact that support is fairly limited (esp for email/pw users), users probably shouldn't use data api from browser passed through next. but for the sake of accuracy, i'll move the contents of the note to the bullet point about using the driver.

and for the sake of not turning this guide into a discussion of data api limitations, i won't mention why you probably shoudn't use the data api with next.js.

   in a Next.js app.
#. On the server, parse the accessToken cookie and use it to fetch data
   from MongoDB using the Atlas GraphQL API.
#. On the server, pre-render the data from MongoDB in your webpage
   before sending it to the browser.

.. note:: Do Not Use MongoDB Data Access with Server-side Rendering

   While possible to use the MongoDB Data Access in server-side environments
   to query MongoDB, it is not generally advisable.
   You would need to persist user credentials in the browser to pass
   to the server on every request, which is a security vulnerability.
   Plus, MongoDB Data Access makes requests from a user object,
   which would need to be re-instantiated and re-authenticated on every request.

The following steps outline using the Realm Web SDK with Next.js server-side rendering.

.. procedure::

   .. step:: Install dependencies

      Install the following npm packages:

      .. code-block:: shell

         npm install nookies
         npm install @apollo/client graphql

   .. step:: Update authentication to use cookies

      Update :file:`pages/_app.js` to save the access token as a cookie.

>       This transfers the cookie from the browser to the server on every request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      This transfers the access token from the browser to the server on every request.
```

      Set your cookie in a ``useEffect`` hook that runs every time
      there's a change in the user object, as shown below.

>       The ``setInterval`` also resets the credential in cookies before the cookie expires.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      The ``setInterval`` also resets the credential in cookies before the token expires.
```

The following steps can be used to connect the Read Web SDK to server-side
Next.js.

.. procedure::

    .. step:: Install dependencies

        Install the following npm packages:

        .. code-block:: shell

            npm install nookies
            npm install @apollo/client graphql

    .. step:: Update authentication to use cookies

        Update ``pages/_app.js`` to save the access token as a cookie. This step is required,
        as it allows the cookie to transfer to the server on every request. Set you cookie in a
        ``useEffect`` hook that runs every time there's a change in the user object, as shown below.
        This hook also creates a ``setInterval`` that updates the cookie every 20 minutes. This means the
        credential is reset in cookies before expiring.

        .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/web/_app.snippet.custom-app-wrapper.js
           :language: javascript

    .. step:: Server-side Render the Data

        #. Create a new page file to perform the server-side rendering.
        
        #. Import the relevant dependencies

        .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/web/server-side-rendering.snippet.server-side-imports.js

>            :language: javascript

Author: indent this and the following literal includes
